So now that you're armed with a little
bit of stats, a little bit of graphs,
let's talk about metrics.
And metrics are central to being a good
products manager because it's evidence.
It's evidence that you are going
in the right direction.
It's evidence you're going
in the wrong direction.
It's a massive tool for
you to describe success,
to describe failure.
It's you measuring and
being a little bit more scientific
about your approach to your product.
So first of all, what is success and
what is failure?
I hope that your organization and
your team has some metrics to describe,
we are trying to affect these metrics.
These are core to our mission, and
here's how we are measuring that.
And we are hoping to affect these other
metrics that we are hoping they go down,
or up, or whatever those are.
So let's talk about that.
But generally all of your actions,
and I think that's fair to say,
all of your actions should affect
your metrics in some capacity.
And if they are not
affecting your metrics,
you better justify that to yourself.
And that usually means, I need to change
what metrics I'm looking at if I'm doing
things that are not affecting my metrics.
Because obviously I care about
something that's not measured, and
I should measure the things I care about.
So let's talk a little bit about team and
organization metrics.
Again, I've said this several times, but
this is actually now the most important
thing I'm about to teach in this class is,
if your company and
your team don't have North Star metrics or
most important metrics,
which a lot of people call North Star
because it's the guiding star, right?
If they don't have top-level metrics,
go make them.
If you do nothing else, that'll be the
most important thing that you've done for
your company, period.
And the way you figure out is,
what are my North Star metrics?
The first thing you look at is,
what's your mission?
What's your charter?
What's your team's vision?
If you have any sort of documents or
pages that describe,
my company cares about this.
Usually that's gonna be something like,
hey, we're trying to,
the Frontend Masters mantra is to educate
more people more deeply, am I close?
I'm close, right?
So you hear in that statement right there,
more people,
that's sign ups,
that's retention of users, right?
Those two things together, and
then more deeply is depth of engagement.
How much are you watching this?
How much are you engaging
with the platform?
How much are you engaging with
other people in your community?
There I just defined at
least some of the KPIs
that Frontend Masters cares about, right?
That's a fairly straightforward
exercise for you to think.
It's like, okay,
what does my company actually care about?
And if your mission statement doesn't
describe something like that,
you probably need to change
your mission statement.
Because it should have, here's the change
I'm hoping to affect in society, right?
Here's the demographic of people
that I'm trying to get to, and
here's what we're trying to offer them.
So this is an interesting kind of exercise
to pick your favorite company and
go over what you think that
their core metrics would be.
And when I say core metrics, or
top-level metrics, or North star metrics,
synonyms of the same thing.
So yeah, let's look at Netflix.
What do you think
Netflix's top metrics are?
Sign ups, just more people
on the platform is goodness.
Retention, are they staying
there month-over-month?
Revenue, things that you can get
people from lower tiers of Netflix and
the ad-supported ones into the higher
level ones generally is a good thing.
Watch hours, or depth of engagements,
how much are they watching the shows?
And that's probably pretty
close to most of their what?
I would imagine they
probably have one around,
actually, I know exactly what they
have because I used to work there.
But they have one where they prefer
Netflix shows over other shows, right?
Cuz they wanna justify their investment in
personal content that keeps
people on Netflix, right?
You sign up for Netflix to watch,
Orange is the New Black or
Stranger Things, right?
And that keeps you from signing up for
Hulu because you can't
get that stuff on Hulu.
But if you're signing up to watch Friends,
that might move tomorrow to Hulu, right?
So that's kind of why
they track that as well.
But generally, these are the things.
And I imagine now they have games, right?
So they're probably gonna
have something around games.
And they have stuff for ads, right?
That's new to me.
I don't know how they handle that
as one of their top level metrics.
But probably people watching ads
successfully is probably another metric in
there as well.
Again, you could probably just roll
that up into revenue though, so.
And gaming could probably just
be rolled up into retention.
So these are the metrics that every
team inside of Netflix should
be contributing to in some fashion.
So I worked on the sign up process across
web and TV, and Windows Phone, fun fact.
What do you think that
team's charter metrics are?
Sign ups, that's the North Star metric of
that team cuz it's the sign up process.
Time to sign up, generally if a user lands
on the site with the intent to sign up,
we wanna get them from zero to sign
up as quickly as possible, and
as usefully as possible.
Bounce rate, this is a funnel, right?
So if you go on this page and
you get to the third page and
you bounce off of that page,
that's not good.
And then 30 day retention.
We don't wanna sign up people that
are actually just gonna bounce off, right?
So that was another thing that
we tracked pretty closely.
But notice all of these,
100% of these ladder up,
when I say ladder up, I just basically
mean that they feed into, right?
All of these ladder up into
organizational metrics.
That should always be the case.
If your team is working on something that
doesn't ladder up into your organization's
goals, means you're going this way and
they're going that way, and why, right?
Now you might say, well, I'm working on
a product that's a skunk works product or
project, or it's a big bet,
or blah, blah, blah.
You should figure out a way that that fits
into your company's organization somehow.
Either your organization is going to add
a new top-level metric that your skunk
works project is gonna
feed into eventually.
Or you should figure out, okay,
eventually I'm doing this and
it's gonna make our project more
compelling so more people will sign up for
it or will retain users better,
blah, blah, blah, things like that.
Okay, any questions about team or
organizational metrics?
>> What's your opinion on
depth of metric measurement?
And sometimes this is said above you,
but, [COUGH] my information science
background said, I don't say if I were
advising the C suite, I would say
these metrics are incomplete because we
don't have things like characterization
of the first 30 days, which would be
trivially accessible on a platform.
You could be kind of a great example.
Did you sign up to watch the new show,
binge it, and then not sign up, right?
In which case we know why, or
was it you poked around and petered out?
Those kinds of things might be useful, but
that is really what does
the organization wanna hear?
So how do you, and I know product would
be very much involved in these decisions,
how do you decide where that lower bound
of information collection needs to?
>> Right, no,
I think it's a good question.
So, first of all, Netflix very much cares
about your first 30 days on Netflix
because it basically determines what
your lifetime value is to Netflix.
What you do in the first
30 days characterizes down,
how long you're gonna
stay on the platform,
your churn rate, all those kinda things.
So there are some
organizations that would say,
we're gonna put that as a top level metric
and every team should care about this.
I, at least at the time, we basically
said that that just is retention.
And if you have a great first 30 days,
you're gonna affect both retention and
revenue.
I think lifetime value actually was a
top-level metric on some of these as well.
But arguably that's retention and
revenue kind of just combined, right?
So the way that I think about it is,
all of these kind of more advanced metrics
which I care about,
we should definitely measure, and
the teams working on those things should
absolutely have those as team metrics.
But they should all somehow ladder up
into one or multiple of these, right?
So it should just basically be like,
if I affect what people do in the first 30
days, I'm definitely gonna affect
these other metrics, right?
And so that's sort of correlation where
there's I can justify this by this just
being an advanced metric of this,
or a derivative of this, or
this is just this further down the line.
And if I'm doing something that this is
important, and it does not affect one of
these metrics, you should change
your organizational metrics.
That's, that opinion, and
I think other people would have
different approaches to that.
Then I'm right.
[LAUGH] I don't know.
That conceptually makes sense to me.
That's the way that I've
worked through my career.